Insurance Application Decision Tree
Intro:
Hi there! We’re excited to help you with your insurance, but I know you probably aren’t quite as excited to tell us everything we’ll need to know. We try to make it simple, but it is a lot of questions. Just remember that when everything is going horribly wrong and things are literally on fire, our insurance companies step in to save the day with a huge check. That’s a big commitment, and they need to know what they’re getting into! So go grab a coffee, settle in, grab a hold of something and we’ll get through this as easily as we can!
Basic Info
First Named Insured
Any related insureds that are not majority owned by first named insureds?
If so then list
If not, nothing
Reminder that JVs must be listed separately – any JVs they are responsible for insuring?
Name, address, ownership %, other partners and %s.
Legal Address (is this a physical location?)
Entity type (Corp, LLC, Partnership, Sole Proprietorship, Non-Profit, Other)
Desired Effective Date
Option for asap
Business Phone
Website
Years in Business
Primary Contact Name
Primary Contact Email
Primary Contact Phone
How many locations do you have? (may simplify early on and ask more questions if select property coverage)
Input box for addresses, auto-fill one with mailing address and make primary if selected that as a physical address
Do we need to prove to anyone that you have insurance (like a lender or landlord?)
Name, Address, Email to send to (can be contact)
Loan number, serial number or other thing to mention?
Do they ask for any of these things? (don’t say yes unless they do, because sometimes they cost extra)
Waiver of Subrogation
Additional insured
Mortgagee
Loss Payee
Primary and Non-contributory
After enter one, ask if have any others
Do you currently have insurance?
Carrier, how long been with them
Have you filed any claims in the last 5 years on your insurance
Include note that this is the most time-consuming part of the process
Confirm no known losses
If losses provide estimate of payout and number of claims
Can provide old policy numbers, carriers and permission to provide loss runs
Pop up that will quote based on provided answers but carrier may request official loss runs before binding, if different will affect pricing
Ask if any of the coverages are claims-made (normally only applies to professional, D&O, crime, etc)
If so, do they know when they first purchased the coverage (store and explain retro dates)
Acord 125 questions (check if any apply), details box pops up if yes
Are you a subsidiary of another entity
Parent co, relationship, what % owned
Is there a formal safety program in place?
Safety manual, monthly meetings, osha-specific, other
Any exposure to flammables, explosives or chemicals?
Any coverage cancelled or non-renewed in last three years?
Why?
Any past losses related to sexual abuse or molestation allegations, discrimination or negligent hiring?
During last 5 years any indictment or conviction for fraud, bribery, or arson?
What happened?
Any uncorrected fire or safety code violations?
What happened and has it been corrected? Include date or plans to correct.
Any bankruptcy or foreclosure in the last 5 years?
What happened and has it been corrected? Include date or plans to correct.
Any court judgement in last 5 years?
What happened and has it been corrected? Include date or plans to correct.
Has business been placed in a trust?
Any foreign operations?
Trigger foreign questionnaire
Any related ventures that you aren’t requesting coverage for?
What are they? Do they carry their own insurance?
What type of company are you?
Manufacturer
Professional
Medical Services
Construction
Technology/Publisher
Real Estate
What Lines do you need?
End each with assumed coverages terms (they can change, but suggested is standard)
Package (only offer together)
If real estate company
Ask about maintenance program
Property
If one
Address, Inside/Outside city limits/Owner or tenant/ sq footage/annual revenues/sprinklers/description or occupancy/age/construction type
If age > 10 years ask renovation ages for wiring, HVAC, roof, Plumbing
Values
Are you responsible for insuring the building (most owners yes, most tenants no) If so, what is replacement cost (with note explaining)
Offer to calculate value per square foot or they can enter
Do you have inventory?
Major seasonal fluctuation?
No – just give max value
Yes, provide average and maximum and timeline
BPP? This is usually the same as Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment on your balance sheet (include furniture, tenant buildout, equipment, etc
BI/EE - if small enough usually get unlimited for free
$1M
Worksheet
Custom Value
If multiple
Cookie cutter or unique?
Cookie cutter give us a template and addresses and we’ll auto-fill and you can adjust on the next page
For values, get blanket values for revenue and BPP and split evenly. Offer to do so for value
Security/Protection
Burglar alarm?
Central Station?
Guards?
24-hour?
Armed?
Off-duty cops?
Uniformed?
Any other security measures?
Remarks box, fully fenced, lighting, security cameras, etc
Teaser questions

Property assumed terms
Special all-risk cause of loss
Replacement cost valuation
Blanket building limit
Blanket BPP limit
100% co-insurance/agreed value
$1,000 per occurrence deductible (wind/hail/eq/flood may differ)
Extension/Platinum/Extend endorsement requested
Care, Custody and Control on if-any basis
GL
Do you do just one thing (pull from initial description and show GL code to see if they think that doesn’t define them broadly enough) or many different things?
If many things, ask for GL code for the next thing
If many things ask if have separate operating subsidiaries
If so what are names and what are ownership percentages for each
If many different things do you do them all at all your locations?
Projected annual revenues?
If multiple locations offer to split equally or they can split how they like among locations
If multiple GL codes ask about splitting by locations
Select GL code that best describes them (incorporate code search based on overall sector selection
If real estate can pull sq ft from property section
GL assumed terms
$1M per occurrence/$2M agg (note that higher limits are from umbrella, so max out 1/2
$1M Products liability
$1M personal/advertising injury
$300K Fire Legal
$5K Medical Expenses
If have employees (can pull from WC or main section) then
$1M EBL
$1,000 per claim deductible
No GL deductible
GL accord questions
Only for contractors, otherwise N/A
Do you draw plans, designs or specifications for others?
Do your operations include blasting or utilize or store explosive material?
Do any operations include excavation, tunneling, underground work or earth moving?
If they have subcontractors:
And they request certificates
Do your subcontractors carry coverages or limits less than yours?
“Are subcontractors allowed to work without providing a certificate of insurance” can answer yes or no based on required certificate question
Do you install, service or demonstrate any products?
Are any foreign products sold, distributed or used as components, if so
What is it?
Do you have a written contract with the supplier holding you harmless and indemnifying you for losses caused by the foreign product? (Purchase orders don’t count)
Do you purchase foreign products through a US-based entity (importer)
If so, do they indemnify you?
What percentage of revenue is attributable to foreign goods?
Any R&D or fundamentally new products planned?
New flavors/colors/etc don’t count – really new products
If not answered under foreign section, do you have contracts with your suppliers?
Do those contracts have guarantees, warranties or hold-harmless agreements?
Do you provide guarantees, warranties or hold-harmless agreements to your customers?
Any products related to aircraft/space industry?
Any products recalled, discontinued or changed in last 3 years?
Do you sell any products produced by others under your own label/branding?
Are your products resold by any other entities under their label or branding?

Are products consumable?
If so go into whole food products supplement
Any named insured sell to other insureds?
Any medical facilities provided or medical professionals employed or contracted?
Any exposure to radioactive/nuclear materials?
Any past/present or discontinued operations related to storing, treating, discharging, applying, fdisposing or transporting hazardous material?
Any operations sold, acquired or discontinued last 5 years?
Do you loan any machinery or equipment to others?
Do you own, lease or regularly hire any boats, docks or watercraft
Do you own any parking facilities for which a fee is charged?
Do you have any recreational facilities
Is there a swimming  pool on premises?
Do you sponsor any sporting or social events (other than occasional employee celebrations)
Any structural alterations or renovations contemplated?
Any demolition expected?
Pull joint ventures from initial info
Do you lease employees to or from other employers
If so PEO or other arrangement?
Is there a labor interchange with any other businesses?
Any daycare facilities operated or controlled?
Any crimes on premises within last 3 years?
Is there a formal, written safety and security policy in effect?
Upload copy if available
Does the website or marketing materials make any representation about the safety or security of the premises?
Subcontracting section (standalone since it applies to GL, E&O and D&O)
Do you subcontract out any of your work? If so,
What percentage of revenue is subcontracted? Ie what is annual contractor spend
What sort of tasks are subcontracted?
Use response to evaluate whether to ask about E&O or just GL/auto/etc
Is it always corporate entities or do you have independent contractors?
If you do use independents is it important for them to be covered as insureds, or ok just to cover your vicarious responsibility?
Do you require certificates of insurance for all subcontractors, just corporate ones (not independents) or just certain classes or sizes?
Have tooltip showing a picture of what a cert looks like
Checkboxes for corporate/ICs, description box for description of classes
If not all subs, what percentage of revenue from subs without certs?
Do you actually track certificates, or just require in contracts?
If so do you use a service like myCOI, certificate depot, etc or do you have an internal process?
Do you have a written contract with all subcontractors?
Is it always the same?
Does it include indemnification/hold harmless?
Does it require them to have certain insurance limits?
Has it been reviewed by internal or external counsel?
If not, what % of subcontracts aren’t the standard agreement?
If not, what are normally the reasons for a different contract?
They’re bigger?
They independent?
Workers Compensation
E&O
Is MPL needed in addition to the core MPL?
Ask about data custody to determine if E&O and cyber are closely entwined enough to require combined placement
Workers Comp
FEIN
Foreign
BTA
K&R
Table of expected trips
# trips, avg and max employee count per conveyance
Pull info on any in-country ongoing ops
Any past incidents?
Crime
Pull location count and employee count
Pull independent contractor count
Control questions
Does employee who reconciles monthly bank statements also sign checks or handle deposits?
If so any extra controls in place?
Are pre-employment reference checks completed for all employees
If not at least for financial employees (accounting, etc)
What about independent contractors?
Are credit checks completed for all employees?
If not at least for financial employees (accounting, etc)
What about independent contractors?
Do you have physical inventory?
If so how often do you do physical check/count
Who does it?
DO you have a list of authorized vendors
Is a procedure in place to verify vendors exist and aren’t owned by employees before putting them on the list?
Does the same person who verifies vendors have authority to update the list
Do you verify invoices against corresponding purchase order and master list before issuing payment
DO you strictly comply with dual-recorded authorization for all outgoing wire transfers
Any independent contractors have custody over any funds?
If so are they subject to same controls as employees?
Do you want 3rd-party crime?
Do you have any custody or control over any funds or materials of clients?
Any past incidents?
Builders Risk
OPPI
Media Liability
Cyber
D&O
Lift name, address, contact name, website from general info
Confirm not limited partnership, or any subsidiaries act as GP for any other entities (JVs)?
If so pull Chubb separate app
Want D&O?
State of incorporation
Lift years of operation from general info
Lift any unrelated subsidiaries/other activities from GL section
Pull number of employees from WC
Do you have any in-house counsel? If so how many?
Pull annual revenues from general info
Request copy of financial docs
Most recent YE audited income statement and balance sheet if available
Most recent interim income sheet
Most recent interim balance sheet
Most recent cap table showing diluted ownership
Open input sheet for list of board members
Include area to indicate what shareholders they represent
Any bankruptcy or layoff in last 12 months or expected next 18?
Any reorg or bankruptcy arrangement in last 12 months?
Any expected next 18 months?
Any closings, workforce reductions, layoffs, etc last 12 months?
Any expected next 18 months?
Currently in compliance with all debt covenants and been so last 12 months?
Within last 5 years has any person to be insured been involved in circumstances related to:
Anti-trust, copyright or patent litigation?
Deceptive trade practices or consumer fraud?
Alleged or actual violation of securities laws?
Any criminal actions?
Any other claim brought against the isnured entity or any individual in his or her capacity as a director or officer of any entity?
Any recent or planned transactions? If so
What date (actual or approximate)
Any public or private security offerings last 12 months?
Any change in directors or officers
Proforma or pre-post transaction financials
Most recent YE audited income statement and balance sheet if available
Most recent interim income sheet
Most recent interim balance sheet
Most recent cap table showing diluted ownership
Open input sheet for list of board members
Include area to indicate what shareholders they represent
Stock deal or asset deal?
If asset deal did/will seller buy a tail policy? How long?
If stock deal ask for loss history or warranty

EPLI?
Table of employee count for current and previous year
Full time us employees
Part time US (including seasonal)
Full time California employees
Part-time California employees
US independent contractors
Employees outside the US
Second table of percentage of salary ranges current and previous year
Up to 60K
61K – 120K
120K+
Written Policies and procedures
Equal Opportunity Employer
Anti-discrimination
Anti-sexual harassment
If no to any, would you be willing to implement within 60 days?
In last 3 years any EEOC letter, employment-related civil suits over $10K
Fiduciary?
Do you have a retirement plan?
What are assets?
How many participants
Is it a 401k?
Is management of choosing funds outsourced?

What is the name of the plan (note normally is named insured 401k plan)
Is it a defined benefit plan
Probably have laundry list of questions here
DO you have an ESOP?
ESOP questions
Do you have any other plans where the entity acts as a fiduciary of funds for employees?
Ay pklans not in compliuance with plan agreements or ERISA?
Any merged, terminated or frozen plans in last 3 years?
Any fiduciaruies accused of breach of trust or criminal conduct?
Any fees assessed by the IRS, DOL or any other governmental entity?

Employed Lawyers
Need signature at end – probably use acord wording. Will likely need separate signatures for warranty statement
Thoughts on storage – each question will need to point to some data field in a database. If that question comes up elsewhere in the discussion, a good way to see whether the question is needed or not is to do a data-pull to see if that data-field is nil. If so then need to ask the question, if not then can skip it because we already have the answer
Additional feature would be to incorporate feature to pull in old data for renewal and do a simpler update
Nice to have dictionary feature that explains definition/usage of insurance terms when hover over it
Remember to add details/comments area where appropriate for yes/no answers
Automatic requests
Vendors coverage
Blanket waiver of subro
Blanket AI with written contract
Primary/non-contrib
30 days NOC
